hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
more of your favorite imperialist plant
hunter and botanist extraordinaire mr.
Robert fortune we rejoin him on this his
second adventure in China his first trip
July 1843 to May 1846 for the London
Botanical Society took him all over the
treaty ports and lands adjacent to there
this time we're reading from his second
book journey to the tea countries of
China I was published in 1852 here
Robert fortune tells the story the trip
he made in the employ of the British
deist India Company this was from 1849
to 1851 and then this book will be
reading from today came out in 1852 the
company had this idea to steal tea
plants seeds and technology from China
in transplant that to their experimental
tea farms in the Himalayas now those
experimental farms were managed by
brilliant naturalist just like fortune
so the British had everything covered as
far as launching a large-scale tea
industry in India except for the seeds
and the know how to turn those leaves
into the quality of black tea that they
just couldn't survive without in the
home country they had had some minor
success growing tea in India but after
so much effort the experts said it still
wasn't up to par with the stuff they
were buying out of China so in this
episode fortune is on his way to the
place where word had it the finest green
teas and all of China came from the
Huang Shan region of southern anhui
province they weren't wrong about that I
won't go so far as to say the tea's from
there are the best but the pretty damn
good you remember from that history of
t-series Huang Shan malfunction was
bound for that region he had left
Shanghai and was sailing down the chin
Tang River and other tributaries of this
wonder of nature this river used to be
called the jaw of river
that's how Joe John got its name how
many people know that so keep it quiet
this is the River where you can witness
the famous tidal bore at Hangzhou you
could see it on YouTube also if you can
get access to it I think there's a few
million chin Tong tidal bore videos also
on Youku and tudo as well in this
episode fortune travels through the
watered world of Jiangsu and Cho Chang
passing through the Lake Thai Regent I
who hung Joe including West Lake and
other towns along the rivers and
tributaries he traversed well good old
RF is living the life being the man
events plenty about his contempt for his
servant this person surname Wang is
quite a character and fortune is already
fed up with this guy even before they
get to where they're going but he keeps
him on I mean RF was trying to lay low
in the country foreigners weren't
supposed to be where he was traveling
around incognito in disguise and Wang
the warned to keep everything on the Qt
just can't stop himself from letting
others in on the secret fortune thought
he was fooling everyone with his pinned
on cue his head shaved Manchu style and
wearing this Chinese garb I don't know
maybe he did but if you ask me if you
see a big hairy white guy dressed up as
a Chinese I bet he looked about his
Chinese's Peter Sellers and Warner
Roland this would be quite a risky and
dangerous adventure Robert fortune took
pardon he was completely off the grid
anyone could have murdered him along the
way and no one would have been the wiser
so despite his good-natured contempt for
the lowborn Chinese as he calls them I
really have to take my hat off to him I
don't know if I would had the guts to do
what he was doing in the 19th century
that is anyway sit back and enjoy this
passage that speaks to you from 1849
Zachary Taylor had just taken the
presidential oath Ireland was still in
the middle of their Great Famine 168
years ago from our
20-17 vantage point leaving the old town
behind us and sailing westward we
entered a broad sheet of water of
considerable size which is probably part
of or at least joins the celebrated Tahu
Lake the water is very shallow and a
great part of it is covered with tropi
by cornice a plant called ling by the
chinese it produces a fruit of a very
peculiar shape resembling the head and
horns of a bullock it is highly esteemed
at all parts of the Empire I have seen
three distinct species or varieties one
of which has a fruit of a beautiful red
color women and boys were sailing about
in all parts of the lake in tubs of the
same size and form is our common
Washington's gathering the fruit of the
Ling I don't know of any contrivance
which would have answered their purpose
better than these rude tubs for they
held the fruit as it was gathered as
well as the gatherer and at the same
time were easily propelled through the
masses of Ling without doing the plants
any injury the sight of a number of
people swimming about on the lake each
and his tub has something very ludicrous
about it after we had passed the lake
the banks of the canal and indeed the
greater part of the country were covered
with mulberry trees silk is evidently
the staple production in this part of
China during the space of two days and
in that time I must have traveled
upwards of a hundred miles I saw little
else than mulberry trees they were
evidently carefully cultivated and in
the highest state of health producing
fine large and glossy leaves what it is
remembered that I was going in a
straight direction through the country
some idea may be formed of the extent of
this enormous Silk District which
probably occupies a circle of at least a
hundred miles in diameter and this it
must be remembered as only one of the
Silk districts in China but it is the
principle in the best one the merchant
and manufacturer will form a good idea
of the quantity of silk consumed in
China when told that after the war on
the port of Shanghai being opened the
exports of raw silk increased in two or
three years from
three thousand to twenty thousand bales
this fact shows I think the enormous
quantity which must have been in the
Chinese market before the extra demand
could have been so easily supplied but
as it is with tea so it is with silk the
quantity exported beers but a small
proportion to that consumed by the
Chinese themselves the 17,000 extra
bales sent yearly out of the country
have not in the least degree affected
the price of raw silk or of silk
manufacturers this fact speaks for
itself
Sherman you're in a town about 140 Lee
northeast from Hangzhou was the next
place of any note which I passed it was
apparently a very ancient city but has
no trade and is altogether in a most
dilapidated condition the walls were
completely overrun with wild shrubs and
in many places were crumbling into ruins
it had evidently seen better in more
prosperous days which had long ago
passed by the boat man informed me that
this part of the country abounded and
thieves and robbers and that they must
not all go to bed at night otherwise
something would be stolen from the boat
before morning we reached the city about
three o'clock in the afternoon the
morning had been cold and rainy and the
boat men who were all wet to the skin
refused to proceed further that day I
was therefore obliged to make up my mind
to stay there all that night and a more
disagreeable one I never spent after
dark my servants and the boatman told
stories of celebrated pirates and
robbers until they frightened themselves
and almost made me believe myself to be
in dangerous company the wind was very
high and as it whistled amongst the
ruinous ramparts the sound was dismal
enough and what added still more to our
discomfort the rain beat through the
roof of our boat and kept dripping upon
our beds before retiring to sleep it had
been arranged that my and one of
the boat men were to sit and keep watch
during the night for our protection from
thieves the station was inside
the boat where I was and the other man
was to keep watch in the after part of
the boat where the cooking department
was carried on how long these centuries
kept
I cannot tell but when I awoke some time
before the morning dawned the dangers of
the place seemed to be completely
forgotten except perhaps in their dreams
for I found them sound asleep
the other man were also sleeping heavily
and no one seemed to have harmed us
during our slumbers I now roused the
whole of them and the morning being fine
we proceeded on our journey towards the
city of Hangzhou during this three day's
journey we had been passing through a
perfectly level country having seen only
three or four small hills near the city
of songs young now however the scene
began to change and the hills which gird
this extensive plain on the west and
southwest sides came into view the
appearance of the flat country here was
rich and beautiful still the mulberry
was seen extensively cultivated on all
the higher patches of ground and rice
occupied the low wetland as we
approached hangzhou the vegetation of
the country was richer and under a
higher state of cultivation than any
which had come under my notice in other
parts of China it reminded me of the
appearance which those highly cultivated
spots present near our large market
towns in England the country around
Hangzhou may well be called the garden
of China the Grand Canal with its
numerous branches not only waters it but
also affords the means of travelling
through it and of conveying the
productions for which it is famous two
other districts the hills in the
background the beautiful bay which comes
up to the town and stretches far away
towards the ocean and the noble River
which here falls into the bay all
contribute to render the scenery
strikingly beautiful on the evening of
the 22nd of October I approached the
suburbs of Hangzhou one of the largest
and most flourishing cities in the
richest district of the Chinese Empire
the Chinese authorities have always been
most jealous of foreigners approaching
or entering this town and has generally
supposed that in addition to the natural
antipathy which they manifest to the
outside barbarians they have a Customs
House here in which they levy duties on
merchandise imported or exported by
foreigners which duties are opposed the
terms of the Treaty of Nanjing
they know well enough that if foreigners
were allowed to come here
this system of extortion would soon be
exposed and broken up as I drew nearer
the city everything which came under my
observation marked it as a place of
great importance the Grand Canal was
deep and wide and bore on its waters
many hundreds of boats of different
sizes all engaged in an active and
bustling trade many of these were
sailing in the same direction as
ourselves whilst others were leaving the
city and hurrying onwards in the
direction of Sue Joe who Jove joshing
and other towns canals were seen
branching off from the Grand Canal in
all directions and forming the high
roads of the country when I reached the
end of this part of my journey my
boatman drew up and moored the boat
amongst the thousands of the same class
and it being now nearly dark I
determined to rest there for the night
when the next morning dawned and I had
time to take a survey of our position I
found that we had been moored on the
edge of a large broad basin of water
which terminates the Grand Canal as I
had nothing to do in the city and merely
wanted to pass on words on my journey to
the green tea country I did not wish to
run the risk of passing through it
before leaving Shanghai when consulting
the map and fixing my route I asked if
it were possible to get to the mouth of
the hangzhou river without actually
passing through the city itself both my
men informed me that this was quite easy
and even protested strongly against my
entering the town they said we should go
by the she who lake at which place we
could leave the Shanghai boat and then
proceed on foot or in shares a distance
of thirty Li by this means we should
merely skirt the town and attain the
object we had in view this plan seemed
feasible enough when we reached the
suburbs of Hangzhou therefore not
knowing the locality I naturally suppose
that we were at XI who which is only
part of the suburbs this however was not
the case Wong who had been sent on shore
at daybreak to procure a chair and
coolies for our luggage now came back
and informed me that he had succeeded in
arranging all this at an inn
by to which we must now go leaving the
boat we walked up a crowded Street for
nearly a quarter of a mile and then
entered the inn in question no one took
the slightest notice of me a
circumstance which gave me a good deal
of confidence and led me to conclude
that I was dressed in a proper manner
and that I made a pretty good
our Shanghai boatman accompanied us
carrying our luggage indeed I believe
they had recommended us to the N at
which we had now arrived to my
astonishment they at once informed their
friend the innkeeper that I was a
foreigner having been paid their fair
they had nothing more to expect and I
suppose could not contain the secret any
longer I now expected that some
difficulties would be experienced in
procuring a chair either through fear of
the mandarins or with a view of
extorting money the old man who made his
living by letting chairs and selling tea
took everything very quietly and did not
seem to despise a good customer even if
he was a foreigner a chair was soon
ready for me to proceed on my journey
the bearers were paid by the master of
the house to take me one stage about
half way and a sum of money was given
them to engage another chair for the
remainder of the journey to a place
called GaN poo which is situated on the
banks of the large river which air falls
into the bay of Hangzhou everything
being satisfactorily arranged I stepped
into the chair and desiring my two
servants to follow me proceeded along
the narrow streets at a rapid pace after
travelling in this way for about a mile
and expecting every moment to get out
into the open country I was greatly
surprised by finding that I was getting
more and more into a dense town for the
first time I began to suspect that my
servants were deceiving me and that I
was to pass through the city of Hangzhou
after all these suspicions were soon
confirmed by the appearance of the walls
and ramparts of the city it was now too
late to object to this procedure and I
thought the best way to act was to let
matters take their own course and remain
passive in this business we passed
through the gates into the city and
seemed an ancient place the walls and
ramparts were high and an excellent
repair and the gates were guarded as
usual by a number of soldiers its Main
Street through
which I passed is narrow when compared
with streets in European towns but it is
well paved and reminded me of the Main
Street of Ningbo
hangzhou however is a place of much
greater importance than Ningbo both in a
political and mercantile point of view
it is the chief town of the church young
province and is the residence of many of
the principal mandarins and officers of
the government as well as of many of the
great merchants it has been remarked not
unfrequently when comparing the towns of
Shanghai and Ning ball that the former
is a trading place and the latter a
place of great wealth hangzhou has both
these advantages combined besides it is
a fashionable place and is to the
province of Judge Yong what sue Jo is to
Jiang nan to hold quotes an old proverb
which significantly says that quote
paradise is above but below are sue Cho
and Hangzhou the walls of this
territorial paradise are said to be 40
Li and circumference that is about eight
English miles although there are a great
many gardens and open spaces inside yet
the extent of the city is very great and
in many parts of the population as most
dense the suburbs also are very
extensive and must contain a very large
population Sir Georges Staunton suppose
that the population of the city and
suburbs was equal to that of Beijing and
Duhalde estimates that a million souls
the houses bear a striking resemblance
to those of Ningbo sue Jo and other
northern towns where I sat down
blindfolded in the main street of one of
these Chinese towns even in one which I
knew well and the bandage removed from
my eyes I should have great difficulty
in saying where I was there are
doubtless distinctions with which the
Barbarian eye is unacquainted but which
would be plain enough to a Chinese I
observed in many parts of the city
triumphal arches monuments to great men
and gorgeous looking Buddhist temples
but although these buildings have a
certain degree of interest about them
and many of them are certainly curious
yet as works of art they are not to be
compared with the buildings of the same
class which one meets with at home the
shops and the main streets have their
front
it's entirely removed by day so that the
passenger may have an opportunity of
seeing and of forming a good idea of the
wares which are for sale
I observed many shops where gold and
silver ornaments and valuable jade stone
were exposed for sale Old Curiosity Shop
s' were numerous and contained articles
of great value amongst the Chinese such
as ancient porcelain jars bronzes carved
bamboo jars cutout of the beautiful Jade
stone and a variety of other things of
light description I observed some large
silk shops as I passed along and judging
from the number of people in the town to
wear silk dresses they must have a
thriving trade everything indeed which
met the I stamped Hangzhou is a place of
wealth and luxury as usual in all the
Chinese towns which I have visited there
were a vast number of tea and eating
houses for the middle classes in the
poor they did not seem to lack customers
for they were all crowded with hundreds
of natives who for a few cash or Chen
can obtain a healthy and substantial
meal
besides the officers of government
merchants shopkeepers and common
laborers connected with all these
professions the city contains a large
manufacturing population silk is the
staple article of manufacture to hauled
estimates the numbers engaged in this
operation at 60,000 I observed a great
number employed in the reeling process
and others were busily engaged with the
beautiful embroidery for which this part
of China is so famous the people of
Hangzhou dress gaily in a remarkable
amongst the Chinese for their dandyism
all except the lowest laborers and
coolies strutted about and dresses
composed of silk satin and crepe my
Chinese servants were one day
contrasting the natives of Hangzhou in
this respect with those of the more
inland parts from which they came they
said there were many rich men in their
country but they all dress plainly and
modestly while the natives of Hangzhou
both rich and poor were never contented
and less gaily dressed in silks and
satins indeed said they
one could never tell a rich man in
hangzhou 4 is just possible that all he
possesses in the world is on his back
when we were about halfway through the
city the chairman set me down and
informed me that they went no further I
got out and looked round for my servants
from whom I expected an explanation for
I had understood that the Chairman had
been paid to take me the whole way
through my servants however were nowhere
to be seen they had either go on some
other road or what was more probable had
intentionally kept out of the way in
case of any disturbance I was now in a
dilemma and did not clearly see my way
out of it
much to my surprise and pleasure however
another chair was brought me and I was
informed that I was to proceed in it I
now understood how the business had been
managed the innkeeper had entrusted the
first bearers with a sum of money
sufficient to hire another chair for the
second stage of the journey part of this
sum however had been spent by them in
tea and tobacco as we came along and the
second bearers could not be induced to
take me on for the sum which was left a
brawl now ensued between the two sets of
chairmen which was noisy enough though a
chairmen which was noisy enough but as
things are but as such things are quite
common in China
it seemed fortunately for me to attract
but little notice the situation in which
I was now placed was rather critical and
far from an enviable one had had been
known that a foreigner was in the very
heart of the city of Hangzhou a mob
would have soon collected and the
consequences might have been serious
take things coolly and never lose your
temper should be the motto of everyone
who attempts to travel in China this is
always the best plan for if you allow
things to take their course ten to one
you will get out of a dilemma like that
in which I was now placed and if you
attempt to interfere you will probably
make matters worse
these were the principles in which I
generally acted but in the present
instance I was not allowed to carry them
out to their fullest extent they had
taken my seat to the second chair and
was patiently waiting until such time as
the first men could give the second
satisfactory reasons for spending part
of their cash and tea and tobacco
the first notice however which I
received of the unsuccessful result of
this attempt was an intimation that I
was to be ejected from the chair I knew
this would not do as from my imperfect
knowledge of the language I might have
some difficulty in finding another
conveyance and I did not know one foot
of the way which I was going I was
therefore obliged to inquire into the
dispute and put an end to it by
promising to pay the difference when we
arrived at the end of our stage this was
evidently what the first Rascals had
been calculating upon but it had the
effect of stopping all further disputes
and my bearers shouldered their burden
and jawed onwards the distance from the
basin of the Grand Canal to the river on
the opposite side is 28 or 30 Li between
five and six miles after leaving the
city behind us we passed through a
pretty undulating country for about two
miles and then entered the town of gan
pool which is built along the banks of
the river chen tong sometimes called the
Green River which here falls into the
Bay of Hangzhou GaN pool is the Seaport
of Hangzhou it's seen nothing of my
servants during the whole way and was
beginning to expect a scene or adventure
at the end of this part of the journey
the chair bearer spoke a peculiar
dialect which I could scarcely make out
and I kept wondering as we went along
what would happen next
the only thing I could make out was that
they were taking me to a home look but
what a home lo was was way beyond my
comprehension to carry out my own
principles and Trust to circumstances
seemed to be the only way of proceeding
and I gave myself very little uneasiness
about the result at length I heard the
men say that here was the home look and
as I was about to look and see what this
might be
the chair was set down and it was
intimated to me that we had reached the
end of the journey greatly to my
surprise and pleasure I now found that
this home look was a quiet and
comfortable Chinese in which was
frequented by passengers from all parts
of the country getting out of my chair I
walked quietly up to the farther end of
the large hall and began to look amongst
a number of packages which were heaped
up there from my own luggage I had seen
nothing of either
that or my servants since I left the
former in it had arrived however quite
safely having been sent on by a
before me and in a few minutes my two
men also made their appearance
we now inform the innkeeper that we
wanted to go upriver to hue Joe and made
enquiries regarding a boat we soon found
that it was part of his trade to give
chops or to secure boat men everything
is done upon this plan in China when a
servant is engaged or a boat hired it is
always necessary for the said servant or
boatman to produce some respectable
householder who for a certain sum
becomes bound for him in a written chop
or agreement this shop is handed over to
the master of the servants or to the
hire of the boat who retains it until
his contract is satisfactorily fulfilled
this system is practiced universally
amongst the Chinese who seem to have no
faith in the lower orders of the people
a quickly dispatched Wang to look after
a boat and desired him to bring the boat
men with him to the end to have his
agreement drawn up and signed the other
man ran out along with them and I was
again left in a strange place among
strangers the end in which I was located
was a large old building pleasantly
situated on the banks of the Green River
all the lower part formed a sort of shed
or warehouse which was filled with goods
of various kinds in the luggage of
passengers at the upper end of this
apartment a table was placed in the
middle of the floor and served for the
host and his guests dine upon around
this table were sitting five or six
respectable looking Chinese merchants
smoking from long bamboo pipes and
discussing the news of the day and the
state of trade these men politely made
way for me at the table I took the seat
offer and to be neighbor like commend
smoking as fast as any of them in other
parts of the warehouse the servants of
these men and other travelling servants
were lolling about or sound asleep upon
the chairs or goods no one seemed to
take any particular notice of me and I
assume sat perfectly at my ease a little
incident happened which gave me some
uneasiness at the time but at which I
had often had a good laugh since
preparations began to be made for dinner
and the travelers who were
seated around the table arose and
wandered about the other parts of the
house it was midday and as I had eaten
no breakfast I felt rather hungry and
these circumstances that may be thought
that the appearance of dinner would have
afforded me some pleasure this however
was not the case and for the following
reason I had not eaten with chopsticks
for three years and I had no confidence
in my talents and the use of them this
important circumstance had not struck me
before otherwise I would have practiced
all the way from Shanghai to Hangzhou
and might have been proficient by this
time and as it was I was quite certain
that I should draw the eyes of Chinamen
upon me for nothing would astonish them
so much as a person using the chopsticks
in an awkward manner I was therefore
obliged reluctantly I confess to abandon
all ideas of a dinner on that day
meanwhile the dishes were placed upon
the table and the guests were called by
their names and requested that sit-down
Tsinghua sing ma the name I bore amongst
the Chinese come and sit down to dinner
I felt much inclined to break my
resolution and sit down but prudence
came to my aid and I replied no I thank
you
I shall dine by and by when my servants
come back I believe it was common enough
for travelers to dine at different hours
and in different ways according to
circumstances so that my refusal did not
seem to attract much notice a short time
afterwards my servants returned bringing
a boatman with them to have a Chop made
out and to have him secured by the
innkeeper as soon as this was done to
our satisfaction we left the inn and
walked down to the boat which lay
alongside one of the wharfs at the
Riverside several other passengers had
also arrived and we were all to sleep on
board as the boat was to start at
daybreak on the following morning to me
this had been an exciting and
adventurous day and I was not sorry when
a darkness closed around us and we all
retired to rest the river chin Tong at
which I was now his its source as far
away amongst the mountains to the
westward one of its branches rises
amongst the green tea hills of hey Cho
another near to the town of Chang Shan
on the borders of jiangshi and a third
on the northern side of the bow hey
mountains these streams unite
their course to the eastward and passing
Hangzhou fall into the bay which bears
the same name all the green and black
tea comes down this river on its way to
Shanghai and at Hangzhou is transshipped
from River boats into those which ply
upon the Grand Canal the importance of
Hangzhou in a mercantile point of view
is therefore very great all goods from
the south and westward must of necessity
passed through this town on their way to
the large and populous districts about
Suzhou seongjong and Shanghai in the
same manner all foreign imports in the
products of the low country such as silk
and cotton in going to the southward and
westward must also pass through Hangzhou
that therefore appears to be like a
great gate at a public highway through
which nothing can pass or repast without
the consent and cognizance of the
authorities the power which this place
gives the Chinese authorities over our
imports and exports through Shanghai is
very great and hence complaints of
stoppages and illegal charges or
squeezes have been not unfrequent the
day cannot be very far distant when we
shall be allowed to trade and travel in
China as in other countries when all
those foolish regulations regarding
boundary lines will be swept away but in
the event of these changes being gradual
it may be a question whether our
government should not endeavor to open
the town of Hangzhou and all events have
a consular agent therefore the
encouragement and protection of our
trade when the next morning dawned we
got underway and stared out into the
river which is here three or four miles
and width the boat was strongly built
flat-bottomed two very sharp both fore
and aft ordinary boats such as those
seen at shanghai would be perfectly
useless hair for they would soon be
broken to pieces on the rocks and stones
which abound in the shallow but rapid
River we were deeply laden with cargo
and carried about twenty passengers the
cargo was packed in the bottom of the
boat the passengers above it two rows of
sleeping berths were constructed along
each side of the boat and a passage
between them so that both passengers and
boatman could walk from stem to stern
without any inconvenience
the first class passengers occupied the
side verse and their servants and
coolies slept in the passage a Chinese
bed is not a very luxurious one it
consists simply of a match to lie upon a
hard square pillow for the head and a
coverlet stuffed with cotton to draw
over the body as protection from the
cold I hit the berth nearest the stern
of the boat
a dwarf occupied the one opposite my -
servants slept in the passage between us
the galley or I should say cooking
apparatus was placed outside and astern
near to the steersman each passenger
when he takes his passage in these boats
agrees for three meals a day at a
certain fixed rate we were to have
congee in the morning rice at midday and
rice congee again in the evening
anything else the passengers wanted such
as tea fish meat or vegetables they had
to provide and cook for themselves the
arrangement seems a good one and it
enables those who are so inclined to
travel at a very small cost many of the
passengers had nothing else than what
was provided by the boatman excepting
perhaps a little tea which they all
carried with them and which in this
country is cheap enough in the morning a
basin of hot water with a cloth and it
was brought to me to perform my
ablutions the following is the Chinese
way of using this the cloth is dipped in
the hot water and then wrung until the
greater part of the water is pressed out
in this hot and damp State it is spread
out on both hands and the face neck and
head rubbed over with it this mode of
washing is not the most effectual but
there is nothing more refreshing on a
warm day if one comes in from a walk hot
and weary this far more refreshing than
bathing in cold water and perhaps more
conducive to health after I was dressed
I received a cup of tea tea in the
strict sense of the word without sugar
or milk
these additions never being used in this
part of China about eight o'clock the
cook had six large earthenware basins
placed at the side of the rice pot each
of these he filled brim full of congee
and set them in the open air to cool
when it was cool enough to be eaten the
basins were placed in a row in the
passage between our berths the
passengers then arranged themselves
Mesa's four in each and breakfast began
by this arrangement the dwarf who
occupied the birth opposite to mine my
two chinese servants and myself formed
the mass Narus to the stern of the boat
each man was furnished with a small
basin and a pair of chopsticks a wooden
ladle was placed in the earth and pan
with which each filled his basin having
had little to eat the day before except
some sweet potatoes which one of my man
brought me I was hungry enough not only
to eat the congee uninviting as it
certainly was but also to disregard the
presence of the Chinese or what they
might think of the awkward way in which
I used the chopsticks I got on very well
however and found that I had not quite
forgotten the art of eating with these
highly civilized instruments it is
however easier to eat rice and congee
with them than other kinds of food for
the basin is generally brought quite
close up to the mouth and its contents
partly sucked and partly shoveled in the
tide and wind were both fair so that we
glided up the river with great rapidity
it was a beautiful autumnal day and the
scene altogether was a most charming one
we had left behind us the Great Plain of
the Jung soo-jung
and the country was now hilly and most
romantic Buddhist temples and pagodas
were observed here and there rising high
above the trees one of the latter is
called layfon ty or the temple of a
thundering winds it stands on the
borders of the shiho lake and appeared
to be a very ancient edifice while
briars and other weeds were growing out
of its walls even up to its very summit
and it was evidently fast going to decay
it formed a striking feature in the
landscape and reminded me of those
ancient castle ruins which are so common
on the borders of England and Scotland
at night when it became too dark to see
our course the boat was anchored abreast
of a small village until the following
morning when we again got underway we
were now 40 or 50 miles to the southwest
of Hangzhou the hills hair had not that
rich appearance which those near the sea
had presented but they were far more
striking in their formation the sides
were ridged and furrowed in a most
remarkable manner and their summits
broken up into many curious peaks and
cones some were low
others were three or four thousand feet
in height and all were rugged they are
in and wild the river now became narrow
shallow and in many parts very rapid
near Hangzhou the country seemed densely
populated but up here there was so
little ground capable of cultivation
that a numerous population could find no
subsistence we only passed two towns of
any note named foo yung and Tong Lu all
the way from Hangzhou to Yin Cho a
distance of 380 Li the people in the
villages against these hills seemed to
earn a scanty subsistence by cutting
firewood and sending it down the lowland
towns for sale my fellow passengers who
were chiefly merchants and servants were
quiet and inoffensive indeed they did
little else but lowland bed and sleep
except when they were eating or smoking
one of them was a confirmed opium smoker
and the intoxicated drug had made him a
perfect slave
I've seen many opium smokers and my
travels but this one was the most
pitiable of them all he was evidently a
man of some standing in society and had
plenty of money his bed was surrounded
with silk curtains his pillows were
beautifully embroidered and his coverlet
was of the richest and softest satin
everything about I'm told of luxury and
sensual pleasures but let me take a peep
inside his bed curtains and describe
what I saw in the first day of our
acquaintance the curtains were down and
drawn close round particularly on that
side from which the wind came he was
clothed in the finest silks and had lain
down and aside upon a mat his head was
resting on one of the embroidered
pillows a small lamp was burning by his
side an opium pipe was in his mouth and
he was inhaling the intoxicating fumes
after smoking for a few minutes he began
to have the appearance which a drunken
man presents in the first stage of
intoxication the fumes had done their
work and he was now in his third heaven
of bliss in a minute or two he jumped up
and called for his teapot from which he
took a good draught of tea he then
walked about the boat evidently a good
deal excited and talked and joked with
everyone he met after spending some time
in this manner he began to smoke tobacco
he then took another draught out of his
teapot
and lay down to slate but a slumbers
were not of long duration and were
evidently disturbed by strange and
frightful dreams he awoke at last but it
was only to renew the dose as before and
so on from day to day even in the silent
night when all around was sunk in repose
his craving for the stimulant was beyond
his feeble powers of resistance often
and often during this passage when I
happened to awake during the night I
could see his little lamp burning and
could smell the sickening fumes as they
curled about the roof of the boat the
effects which the moderate use of opium
had produced upon this man were of the
most melancholy kind his figure was thin
and emaciated his cheeks at a pale and
Haggard hue his skin had that peculiar
glassy polished by which an opium smoker
is invariably known his days were
evidently numbered and yet strange to
tell this man tried to convince others
and himself also that he was smoking
medicinally and that the use of opium
was indispensable to his health he as I
looked upon him and these moments of
excitement I could not help feeling what
a piteous object is man the Lord of
creation and noblest work of God when
sensual pleasures and enjoyments take
such a hold upon him as they had upon
this poor opium smoker during the first
day all the passengers looked upon me as
one of themselves and I fancied I had
become a very fair but my
who was a silly talkative fellow
imagined he was in possession of a
secret and doubtless felt the weight of
it rather uncomfortable I observed it
once or twice in close conversation with
one of the boat men and it turned out
afterwards that he told this man has a
great secret of course that I was a
foreigner one of those home mouths who
were so numerous in Shanghai
by-and-by the secret began to who's out
in both boat men and passengers were
taking sly peeps at me when they thought
I did not see them suspecting that all
was not right
I called Wong aside and asked him how it
was that I become all at once such an
object of interest oh he said that
he is too much a fool oh he have
talkie all that man you know belong this
country you more better Cindy go away
suppose you know one tea too much bobbly
in plain English he and
me that the was a fool that he
had told all the people that I was a
foreigner and that I better send him
away if it did not wish to have a
disturbance it was too true my secret
was such no longer I felt much inclined
to punish the for his conduct and
he had to thank the peculiar
circumstances in which I was placed for
getting off scot-free
I believe the poor fellow was
sufficiently punished afterwards by his
own countrymen who thought they had him
to a certain extent and their power
nothing more occurred worthy of notice
until we arrived at the city of young
Joe a town about three hundred and
eighty Li from Hangzhou it is walled and
fortified in the same manner as all
Chinese towns the walls are fully four
miles in circumference it seems an
ancient place but judging from the small
number of boats moored in the river
opposite I should not imagine it of much
importance as a place of trade a
considerable quantity of rough lacquered
wear is manufactured here and sold much
cheaper than at the towns near to the
sea it is place of call for all the hue
Jo boats and a considerable trade is
carried on in all the common necessaries
of life judging from its size it may
contain about two hundred thousand
inhabitants they do not seem so rich or
at all events they are not so gaily
dressed as their neighbors in Hangzhou a
little below the town there are two very
pretty pagodas one of these is built on
a curious conical Hill and is named the
who lungta here the river divides or I
should rather say two streams unites one
of which comes down from the southward
taking its rise partly on the borders of
Jiang Shi and Jiang nan and partly on
the northern sides of the great bow hay
mountains to this I may return
afterwards in the meantime I went to the
northern branch which comes down from
the green tea country of cuejoe
the hills above Yin Cho are barren but
the valleys and lowlands are rich and
fertile this city is considered halfway
between Hangzhou and watch oh and our
boatman seemed to think themselves
entitled to make it serve the purpose of
a halfway house at which they could
remain some time moreover the river had
increased much in rapidity and it was
necessary to add considerably to the
number of our crew two days were spent
here in making these arrangements and in
making various purchases such as struck
for the man rice to service during the
remainder of the journey and also
articles which could sell at a profit
further up the country I did not regret
this delay as it gave me an opportunity
of seeing the old town as well as a
portion of the country which was
entirely new to me during our stay here
my servant Wang who was a foolish
obstinate man nearly got us all into a
very serious scrape it seemed he had
given one of our boatman a bad dollar
and payment of a debt which the latter
brought back not being able to pass it
in the town in the meantime Wang had
been indulging in a little Sam shoe a
Chinese spirit and was at a very excited
state when the dollar was brought back
he affirmed that it was not the same one
he had given the boatman and that he
would have nothing to do with it after
some altercation however he took it back
and set off into the city as he said to
change it himself in a few minutes he
returned with a dollars worth of copper
cash strung over his shoulders
exclaiming in triumph that the dollar
was good enough and that he had found no
difficulty in passing it
although the fool of a boatman had he
now threw down the dollars worth of cash
to the other and asked him in an enraged
and excited manner if he was satisfied
now the latter took up the strings of
cash very quietly and began counting and
examining them and a second or two he
returned them saying that they were so
mixed and inferior that it would be
impossible to pay them away except at a
considerable loss and that he would not
receive them he again demanded to be
paid and good and perfect coin long now
pretended to be very indignant I gave
you a dollar said he and you said that
was bad I changed it and gave you copper
cash and you returned them pray what do
you want the passengers now gathered
round them and there was every prospect
of a serious riot after a great deal of
noise however the poor fellow pocketed
his cash protesting at the same time
that he had been badly used and
threatening to have his revenge on Wong
at some future time at the end of two
days the additional man having been
engaged and all the purchases completed
we passed up the river and left the town
of Yun Chao behind us our course was now
in a northwesterly direction the stream
was very rapid in many parts so much so
that
is used for turning the water wheels
which grind and husk rice and other
kinds of grain the first of these
machines which I observed was a few
miles above yen Cho at the first glance
I thought it was a steam boat and was
greatly surprised I really thought the
Chinese had been telling the truth when
they used to inform our countrymen in
the south that steam boats were common
in the interior as I got nearer I found
that the steam boat was a machine of the
following description a large barge boat
was firmly moored by the stem and stern
near the side of the river in a part
where the stream ran most rapidly two
wheels not unlike the paddles of a
steamer were placed at the sides of the
boat and connected with an axle which
passed through it on this axle were
fixed a number of short cogs each of
which as it came round pressed up a
heavy mallet to a certain height and
then allowed it to fall down upon the
grain placed in a basin below these
mallets were continually rising and
falling and the axle was driven rapidly
round by the outside wheels which were
turned by the stream the boat was
thatched over to afford protection from
the rain as we got further up the river
we found that machines of this
description were very common about ten
or twelve miles above yen Cho the
country appears more fertile the hills
are covered again with low pines and the
lowlands abound and tallow trees camphor
trees and bamboos large quantities of
Indian corn and millet are grown in this
part of the country which is for the
most part too hilly for rice crops our
progress upwards was now very slow owing
to the great rapidity of the river every
now and then we came to Rapids which it
took us hours to get over
notwithstanding that 15 men with long
ropes fastened to the mast of our boat
were tracking along the shore and five
or six more were polling with long
bamboos with looking upon a river such
as this is one would think it quite
impossible to navigate it yet even this
difficulty is overcome by hard labour
and perseverance the slow progress which
we necessarily made suited my purposes
exactly and enabled me to explore the
botanical riches of the country with
convenience and ease
I used to rise at the break of day and
spend the morning inspecting the hills
and valleys near the sides of the river
and then returned to the boat in time
for breakfast breakfast over I generally
went
Oregon accompanied by my man who carried
the seeds plants or flowers we might
discover during our rambles the first
thing we did on these occasions was to
ascend the nearest hill and take a
survey of the windings of the river with
the number of Rapids in order that we
might form some idea of the progress our
boat would make during our absence if
the rapids were numerous we knew that
she would progress slowly and that we
might wander to a considerable distance
with perfect safety if on the other hand
the river seemed smooth and it's bed
comparatively level we were obliged to
keep within a short distance of the
banks thus day after day passed
pleasantly by the weather was delightful
the natives quiet and inoffensive and
the scenery picturesque in the highest
degree
my and myself often footsore
and weary used to sit down on the
hilltop and survey and enjoy the
beautiful scenery around us the noble
River Clare and shining was seen winding
amongst the hills
Herot was smooth as glass deep and still
and they are shallow and running rapidly
over its rocky bed at some places trees
and bushes hung over its sides and dip
their branches into the water while at
others rocks reared their heads high
above the stream and bade defiance to
its rapid current the whole country was
hilly in the distant mountains varying
in height from three hundred to three
thousand feet were peaked ridged and
furrowed in a most remarkable manner
altogether the views were most charming
and will long remain vividly impressed
upon my memory and the 29th and 30th of
October we passed the town of Chau un a
place of considerable note hops the town
to China and there is a curious shaped
Hill which is composed chiefly of
granite of a beautiful greenish color
much prized by the Chinese the slabs are
used for various ornamental purposes but
they are more particularly in demand for
the building of tombs large quantities
are taken down the river to Yen Cho and
Hangzhou for this purpose the tea plant
was now frequently seen in cultivation
on the hillsides this being the
outskirts of the great green tea country
to which I was bound leaving the town of
zhang jian abreast of which we had
anchored during the night we proceeded
on our journey on the morning of the
31st of October after going a short
distance we came to a wild looking part
of the hills where there was a most
curious and distinct echo the boatman
and passengers amused themselves by
yelling and uttering strange words at
the highest pitch of their voices these
were taken up and distinctly repeated
again and again first by the nearest
Hills and then by others more distant
until they gradually died away Chinese
have strange prejudices and opinions
about this place they told me that the
spirits of man after death often chose
to dwell amidst this wild and beautiful
scenery and they said it was they that
now repeated these sounds and echoed
them from Hill to Hill as the day wore
on we came to one of those Rapids which
are so difficult to pass and observed a
great number of small boats waiting for
and visiting all the larger ones as they
came up these were River beggars each of
them had a very old man or woman on
board whose hair in most instances was
whitened with age and who was evidently
in the state of imbecility and second
childhood they all expected alms from
the boat man who arrived from the rich
towns of the east near the sea the
Chinese to their honor Revere and love
old age it was said that a celebrated
English Admiral was once in danger of an
attack from the Canton mob but the
moment he lifted his hat showed his gray
hairs they true back and allowed him to
pass on unmolested be this as it may it
is certain that they Revere and love old
age and gray hairs it was a custom with
the boatman every morning to set aside a
small portion of rice and a bamboo cup
to give to the poor hence the beggars
were generally successful in their
applications indeed it was the most
difficult matter to get rid of them
otherwise for they were most important
it and even troublesome we were visited
by so many that the boatman often
complained of his inability to give more
than an ounce or two of rice to each and
appealed to them on the subject but
unless the whole of the contents of the
bamboo cup was emptied into the basket
held out the mendicants made a great
noise and complain that they had been
deprived of their due sometimes the
river was so shallow so full of stones
that the only passage for boats was
close inshore the land beggars knew
these places well
and always took their stations there
each was provided with a basket
suspended from the point of a bamboo
pole which he held out to the boat man
and asked for alms these Landsman were
quite as important it as their brethren
in the boats and were generally as
successful in their applications I was
not aware until now that the lower
orders in China such as these boat men
were so charitable few of the beggars
and their name was legion were sent to
wait without any arms it might be that
ignorant and idolatrous as these boat
men were they had yet some idea what a
blessing would result from casting their
bread upon the waters well how was that
I was a lot of scenery to take in the
thought Quang Emperor by the way is in
the last year of his reign of misery all
those foreigners in getting to know
Robert fortune like we have in these
past six episodes through his writing we
can get a sense of the attitude of many
of these foreigners wandering around
China right after the opium war
can you imagine there are thousands of
Robert fortunes and man did they ever
like bossing the locals around and
complaining did you notice that remark
fortune made about these quote foolish
regulations in Hangzhou and how he
intimated British military power should
be used to sweep away these boundary
lines and allow unfettered access to
Hangzhou dang times sure have changed
haven't they maybe you caught him
quoting from to hold about the old
proverb choung yo tin Tang Shao Yong soo
hyung heaven is above soo hyung are
below remember Jean Baptiste Wald from
CHP 127 the birth of us-china relations
one of the most listened to episodes of
all time at the China history podcast he
wrote the general history of China
published in 1735 in its day and for a
long time thereafter this book was the
most authoritative source about China
that existed in the milky way so far as
anyone knew this work will be featured
later on once we get out of first gear
here at the China vintage hour unlike
Robert fortune to all never actually
went to China but he did have a nice
stable of Jesuits who had spent years in
China during the glorious and
spectacular rains of the kanji and Yong
Chun Emperor's they were able to give to
all to the inside skinny on late 17th
and early 18th century China that was
interesting how these early logistics
worked rickshaw pullers and boat men who
plied these roads of old China had to
tie themselves to any number of hotel or
shop owners who for a percentage of
course would vouch for them as sort of a
guarantor in this way someone in need of
transport could safely hire men to do
the heavy lifting it's so interesting to
get a little peek at how these things
worked back in those days when
communication was still moving no faster
than the speed of a horse but the
railroads were coming soon
well not that soon not till the 1880s
Chinese were building railroads in the
United States before they were laying
track down in China of course however
they did catch up and creamed us later
on
well more RF next episode tea lovers and
lovers of tea history will appreciate
this one he'll be wandering through the
green tea country of the Huang Shan
region in scenic southern on way making
all his professional observations
everything he sees is noted down or
sketched in his journals so his secret
mission carried out on behalf of his
East India Company paymaster's will
begin in the next episode until then mis
amigos this is Laszlo montgomery of the
china vintage hour and of course the
china history podcast and Chinese
sayings podcast all part of the tea cup
media empire feel free to stop by
anytime and check us out at tea cup dot
media we'll see you next time for
another old-time Chinese story here at
the China vintage hour